The-rewarder pr (#6)
igorganich/damn-vulnerable-defi-halmos: test/the-rewarder/README.md

        ...
        glob = new GlobalStorage();
        ...
        glob.add_addr_name_pair(address(dvt), "DamnValuableToken");
        glob.add_addr_name_pair(address(weth), "WETH");
        glob.add_addr_name_pair(address(distributor), "TheRewarderDistributor");
    }
    ```
    we ignore the `merkle` contract, since it is completely readonly.
5. Bypass issue #338
    ```solidity
    startHoax(deployer, 1 << 80);
    ```
6. Print all contract addresses:
    ```solidity
    console.log("GlobalStorage", address(glob));
    console.log("DamnValuableToken", address(dvt));
    console.log("WETH", address(weth));
    console.log("TheRewarderDistributor", address(distributor));
    ```
    ```javascript
    $ halmos --solver-timeout-assertion 0 --function check_theRewarder
    ...
    [console.log] GlobalStorage 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000aaaa0002
    [console.log] DamnValuableToken 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000aaaa0003
    [console.log] WETH 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000aaaa0004
    [console.log] TheRewarderDistributor 0x00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000aaaa0006
    ```

> 7. `vm.expectRevert()` is unsupportable cheat-code. Just delete it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. `vm.expectRevert()` is an unsupported cheat-code. Just delete it.
```

    "Not enough DVT in recovery account"
);
assertEq(
    weth.balanceOf(recovery),
    TOTAL_WETH_DISTRIBUTION_AMOUNT - ALICE_WETH_CLAIM_AMOUNT - weth.balanceOf(address(distributor)),
    "Not enough WETH in recovery account"
);
```
As usual, we check whether we can empty the distributor of some unexpected amount. Note that the formula here will be a bit more complicated than we are used to seeing. First, we take into account that **Alice** has taken her reward and it is expected that the player himself can take his reward once. Therefore, the invariant looks like this:
```solidity
function _isSolved() private view {
    assert (dvt.balanceOf(address(distributor)) >= 
            TOTAL_DVT_DISTRIBUTION_AMOUNT - ALICE_DVT_CLAIM_AMOUNT - 11524763827831882);
    assert (weth.balanceOf(address(distributor)) >= 
            TOTAL_WETH_DISTRIBUTION_AMOUNT - ALICE_WETH_CLAIM_AMOUNT - 1171088749244340);
}
```
`11524763827831882` and `1171088749244340` are the amounts of **DVT** and **WETH** the player is expected to be able to collect as he is one of the reward recipients. We took these numbers from **dvt-distribution.json** and **weth-distribution.json**.
### Loading rewards

> In the setup process, the original test internally parses 1000 records in **JSON** format and uploads them to the **distrubutor** contract. However, there is a problem: Halmos does not support the required cheat codes, namely `vm.projectRoot()`, `vm.readFile()` and `vm.parseJson()`. We will work around this problem in a somewhat dirty but effective way. Instead of parsing the **JSON**, we will immediately explicitly insert the bytes into the right place. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the setup process, the original test internally parses 1000 records in **JSON** format and uploads them to the **distributor** contract. However, there is a problem: Halmos does not support the required cheat codes, namely `vm.projectRoot()`, `vm.readFile()` and `vm.parseJson()`. We will work around this problem in a somewhat dirty but effective way. Instead of parsing the **JSON**, we will immediately explicitly insert the bytes into the right place. 
```

    ...
```
```javascript
$ forge test --mp test/the-rewarder/TheRewarder.t.sol -vvv
...
Logs:
  0x000...e962
  0x000...b3d4
```
Insert it into the Halmos test:
```solidity
function setUp() public {
    ...
    bytes32[] memory dvtLeaves = _loadRewardsDVT();
    bytes32[] memory wethLeaves = _loadRewardsWETH();
    ...
}
...
function _loadRewardsDVT() private view returns (bytes32[] memory leaves) {
    Reward[] memory rewards =
        abi.decode(hex"000...e962", (Reward[]));
    assertEq(rewards.length, BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT);

    leaves = new bytes32[](BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT);
    for (uint256 i = 0; i < BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT; i++) {
        leaves[i] = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(rewards[i].beneficiary, rewards[i].amount));
    }
}
    
    
function _loadRewardsWETH() private view returns (bytes32[] memory leaves) {
    Reward[] memory rewards =
        abi.decode(hex"000...b3d4", (Reward[]));
    assertEq(rewards.length, BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT);

    leaves = new bytes32[](BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT);
    for (uint256 i = 0; i < BENEFICIARIES_AMOUNT; i++) {
        leaves[i] = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(rewards[i].beneficiary, rewards[i].amount));
    }
}
```

> This thing works for a long time in Halmos: it took all of 1 minute on my machine to create **dvt** and **weth** leaves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This thing takes a long time in Halmos: it took all of 1 minute on my machine to create **dvt** and **weth** leaves.
```

### Dealing with Merkle functions
Again cryptography puts a spanner in our works. This time when we try to run the test we get an error:
```javascript
$ halmos --solver-timeout-assertion 0 --function check_theRewarder
...
Error: setUp() failed: HalmosException: No successful path found in setUp()
```
The problem is in `merkle.getRoot()`:
```solidity
function getRoot(bytes32[] memory data) public pure virtual returns (bytes32) {
    require(data.length > 1, "won't generate root for single leaf");
    while (data.length > 1) {
        data = hashLevel(data);
    }
    return data[0];
}
```

> Halmos doesn't do well with large loops. The good news is that we don't have to look for root in the runtime. It is enough to calculate it once, even in the original forge test and hardcode it:

Reviewer: nice workaround

Reviewer: although I can sense there will be issues with just passing a hash value (without halmos knowing a hash of what)

Reviewer: is the loop really the cause of the failed `setUp()`? the error message is saying that all paths explored in setUp revert

Author: Described more precisely

wethproof[2] = hex"0be25e66daab92e7052e6c307ae4743bba49ae08c7324acbc3eb730f51b991e0";

// First, the DVT claim
claims[0] = Claim({
    batchNumber: 0, // claim corresponds to first DVT batch
    amount: ALICE_DVT_CLAIM_AMOUNT,
    tokenIndex: 0, // claim corresponds to first token in `tokensToClaim` array
    proof: dvtproof // Alice's address is at index 2
});
console.log("claims[0] created");

// And then, the WETH claim
claims[1] = Claim({
    batchNumber: 0, // claim corresponds to first WETH batch
    amount: ALICE_WETH_CLAIM_AMOUNT,
    tokenIndex: 1, // claim corresponds to second token in `tokensToClaim` array
    proof: wethproof // Alice's address is at index 2
});
```
And another such place is `MerkleProof.verify()` from `TheRewarderDistributor::claimRewards()`:
```solidity
function claimRewards(Claim[] memory inputClaims, IERC20[] memory inputTokens) external {
    ...
    bytes32 leaf = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(msg.sender, inputClaim.amount));
    bytes32 root = distributions[token].roots[inputClaim.batchNumber];
    if (!MerkleProof.verify(inputClaim.proof, root, leaf)) revert InvalidProof();
    ...
}
```

> Processing cryptographic proofs is very difficult for Halmos. Let's just remove this check, but at the same time assume that we have entered the correct data. We did something similar in [Naive-receiver](https://github.com/igorganich/damn-vulnerable-defi-halmos/tree/master/test/naive-receiver#optimizations).

Reviewer: it would be interesting to discuss what it means to remove this check. IIUC, it means that we assume that an attacker is able to produce a valid merkle proof, and so we are not looking for a bug in the merkle verification procedure. Does that sound right? (and reasonable?)

Author: Described

```solidity
...
if (msg.sender == address(0x44E97aF4418b7a17AABD8090bEA0A471a366305C)) // player address
{
    if (address(token) == address(0xaaaa0003)) // If DVT token
        vm.assume(inputClaim.amount == 11524763827831882);
    else if (address(token) == address(0xaaaa0004)) // If WETH token
        vm.assume(inputClaim.amount == 1171088749244340);
}
//bytes32 leaf = keccak256(abi.encodePacked(msg.sender, inputClaim.amount));
//bytes32 root = distributions[token].roots[inputClaim.batchNumber];

//if (!MerkleProof.verify(inputClaim.proof, root, leaf)) revert InvalidProof();
...
```
### Avoiding nested vm.startPrank()
The current version of Halmos does not support nested `startPrank()`. So let's replace
```solidity
startHoax(deployer, 1 << 80);
...
vm.startPrank(alice);
...
vm.stopPrank(); // stop alice prank
vm.stopPrank(); // stop deployer prank
```
by
```solidity
startHoax(deployer, 1 << 80);
...
vm.stopPrank(); // stop deployer prank
vm.startPrank(alice);
...
vm.stopPrank(); // stop alice prank
```

> Wow, it was really a long preparation. Let's move on to the next steps!

Reviewer: indeed, what a grind! it seems like using big jsons with 1000 entries is kind of a big distraction, no? couldn't the same bug be exhibited with a single beneficiary? 

there may be an opportunity to attack this type of challenge indirectly, instead of going for a direct solve, you first demonstrate what the vulnerability is on a smaller sample or with reduced assumptions (like ignoring the merkle proof verification), and then as a second step construct the full exploit. Wdyt?

Author: Yes, we can find this bug with simplifications. You can even see that I reduced number of recipients to 5 in POC (currently in master), so I thought about it. I see 2 ways to simplify - as I did in the POC (reduced the number of recipients). This does not affect the technique of preparing the setup (you still should parse JSON somehow), but reduces the time to calculate leafs. Yes, it's nice, but not worth the attention in my opinion. This would only overload the already complex material.
And the other way is the one proposed by you. Just reduce the setup to the 1 rewarder. This seems like an overly strong heuristic that needs very serious justifications. Since We simulate the situation as if we do not know in advance where the bug is, we would have to justify:
1) Why do we have only 1 leaf instead of a whole merkle tree (Or we could even refactor tree to default mapping logic). 
2) Why did we assume that the bug is not related to the fact that there are SEVERAL rewarders in the setup, considering that there is also Alice in the conditions of the task. 
3) Protection against double withdraw mechanism is tied to merkle tree. Should we refactor it? Why? All of these and similar questions should be answered.

In my opinion, if the problem can be solved without such simplifications, it should be solved that way. 
Regarding ignoring the merkle proof verification - here the situation is different. We cannot find such a proof using symbolic analysis methods. Therefore, we use such a technique by removing the check, but assuming valid input. I will add, as requested by you, a more detailed explanation of why this is a fair simplification and can be used in Halmos testing.

Reviewer: > Regarding ignoring the merkle proof verification - here the situation is different. We cannot find such a proof using symbolic analysis methods.

not sure what you mean here

> In my opinion, if the problem can be solved without such simplifications, it should be solved that way.

I think of it this way. There are roughly 2 big approaches:
- top-down/black box: you take the existing system as a monolith, ask the question directly to pass isSolved and hope halmos can find the issue. Pretty natural to do since this is a CTF after all, all you care about is finding a solve.
- bottom-up/gray box: you consider each component of the system, test them one by one, and work your way up to a full solve. In this case the components are: the merkle proof verification, the claim processing, the token transfers. Just like when you test with a single transaction first, it makes sense to test with a single claim first, then multiple claims.

I'm not saying one approach is superior to the other, just highlighting that both can be used depending on the context.

## No SymbolicAttacker? 
There is a feature in this challenge that prevents us from using the convenient **SymbolicAttacker** proxy contract. Since the logic of **TheRewarderDistributor** contract is tied to the player's specific address, `msg.sender` in **TheRewarderDistributor** should be exactly the player's address. Instead, we'll move all of the **SymbolicAttacker** logic right into **TheRewarderChallenge** contract.
## Improvement of coverage

> Plannedly launch one symbolic transaction to check whether all paths are covered:

Reviewer: > Plannedly

unfortunately not a word 🙃

```solidity
function attack() private {
    execute_tx();
    //execute_tx();
}
function check_theRewarder() public checkSolvedByPlayer {
    ...
    attack();
}
```
```javascript
$ halmos --solver-timeout-assertion 0 --function check_theRewarder
...
[ERROR] check_theRewarder() (paths: 180, time: 30.22s, bounds: [])
WARNING:halmos:Encountered symbolic memory offset: 704 + Concat(Extract(250, 0, p_inputClaims[0].tokenIndex_uint256_5cfd392_07), 0)
...
WARNING:halmos:check_theRewarder(): paths have not been fully explored due to the loop unrolling bound: 2
...
```
### Increase the symbolic loops
We have as many as 3 contracts stored in **GlobalStorage**, but Halmos runs 2 loop iterations by default. Let's add the parameter `--loop 3` to the Halmos command.
### Symbolic token index

> The old symbolic offset problem, but in a new form. This time we are trying to retrieve an IERC20 token by index, which is a symlobic value. and Halmos doesn't like it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The old symbolic offset problem, but in a new form. This time we are trying to retrieve an IERC20 token by index, which is a symbolic value. and Halmos doesn't like it:
```
